Jerry Michalski: This is the Open Global Mind Community Call for Thursday, August 21st, 2025.
Jerry Michalski: We had a very nice call last week.
Jerry Michalski: About, kind of, reliability of sources. Like, what do… what sources do we trust? How do we know what information to trust?
Jerry Michalski: And, today's topic is kind of along the same line, and was sparked in part by, Ted Joya, who sent
Jerry Michalski: a post I'm going to put in the chat right now called, Assured Reality Will Self-Destruct in the Next 12 Months.
Jerry Michalski: And Ted Julia has a substack called The Honest Broker. He's a music expert.
Jerry Michalski: And he's been doing… in particular, the things that have gone viral for him have been his takes… his occasional takes on the music industry and the content industry, and how it's being eaten by TikTok and instant gratification and a bunch of other things.
Jerry Michalski: And I don't know how he writes as much as he does, he's really prolific, but the writing is always high quality.
Jerry Michalski: And in this one, he's kind of saying, hey, I used to be able to sort of tell when a song was made by a robot, you know, by AI. I'm pretty sure that boundary is blurring, and there's a whole mess of other boundaries blurring.
Klaus Mager: And this could have some calamitous,
Jerry Michalski: Ways of playing out.
Jerry Michalski: consequences. And I actually haven't managed to read it all the way to the end, but that got me thinking about a lot of the things that we were talking about last week. So I figured, well, let's put a stake in the sand there and see where it takes us, because if we… if we lose…
Jerry Michalski: So you could argue that once the major… once the three news networks that were on American TV every evening, you know, Cronkite, ABC, CBS, and NBC,
Jerry Michalski: once those melted away into the intertubes, and a whole bunch of other things showed up, and then also it was aided by CNN and Fox and a whole bunch of other players sort of creeping in first before the internet sort of ate things.
Jerry Michalski: and now we're kind of awash. You could argue that we've lost this shared narrative or collective experience of listening to the same people and the same news in roughly the same way. That's an interesting argument.
Jerry Michalski: But now, I think the argument might be we're not even gonna agree on the same facts of what happened, because we won't be sure what actually happened, and there will be lots of people spinning things wildly in every direction, and there'll be lots of misdirection planted in our environments, and, and, and, and, and…
Jerry Michalski: And this could have some pretty severe consequences. 3 things you want to say, 3 words that will solve the problem. Gil, what 3?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I think there's at least 3 questions that you're raising, Jerry.
Jerry Michalski: Excellent. Tease them out for us, will ya?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Let me see if I can.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: … that's the problem with the brain. One is that the, … the, the, the…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The three news networks were a shared conversation.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It was not… excuse me, sorry, it was not facts, because even then, there were a lot of alternate views. I mean, I think of I.F. Stone, first, you know, first and foremost, who would be deconstructing the news back in the, you know, back in the early 60s.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: with great rigor, and say, no, these guys are not covering the whole story. They had, you know, they had 25 minutes to summarize the world, and they were very selective in what they did.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And there's an iterative common narrative behind what they did that they also created, but it did provide a national coherence.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: for most people in… who paid attention to news at all in some kind of common story. That's number one. …
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: …
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Number two, Stuart Brand was the first person I saw raise this, and I think it was in the mid-70s, when he was talking about photo…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The early advent of whatever the Photoshop precursor was, was saying that, you know, photographic evidence will no longer be documentary evidence. That was his claim and prediction, I think, in 76 or something like that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And it really stuck with me, and of course, we've seen that unfold in various ways, and now what you're talking about is the more highly developed version of that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We're even, you know, any, any…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Whether it's narrative, or photographic, or moving images, or music, what have you, you know, we can't tell anymore, so there's that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Excuse me.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: … Third is that, The cultural commitment to veracity.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: is gone or going. Or let's put it this way, there are a lot of people who don't give a shit about that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Where maybe they used to. And there
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The fourth, the fourth. And the fourth is just, you know, is into the more ontological, philosophical, which is how do we know anyway? Because we are all of us constructing, living in interpretations of the world.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And even what I'm seeing on my screen right now is not what I'm seeing on my screen, it's what's… it's an experience that's assembled in my brain from photonic input on receptor cells in my eyes. It's a constructed image.
Jerry Michalski: Yep.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: As we are constructing meaning all the time.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I guess I needed 4, but that's… that's where I start with this. It's a lot. It's a huge topic. Oh, and number 5?
Jerry Michalski: Wait, there's more?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: wait, there's… but wait, there's more! It slices, it dices. You provoke this call around the topic of reality, and it always brings me back to Lily Tomlin in that wonderful one-person show, Search for Intelligent Life of the Universe, where Trudie the Bag Lady, one of the characters she plays, says, reality.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Highly overrated, it's just a collective hunch.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So I always think about reality as a highly overrated topic.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'll stop there.
Jerry Michalski: That was funny. I've used….
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I've used up my time for the morning, I'll be quiet from now on.
Jerry Michalski: Excellent.
Rick Botelho: Right.
Jerry Michalski: Or not, or not. Kalia, the shadow that the sun is throwing behind you makes it look like you're in prison somewhere?
Jerry Michalski: Are you, are you, like, in solitary right now, or what's the deal?
Kaliya Identity Woman: No, it's just my… It's like a curtain, so if I straighten it out.
Jerry Michalski: Oh my god, you can move the bars! That's so cool!
Kaliya Identity Woman: Yeah.
Kaliya Identity Woman: And that's, like, the window… Waves, yeah.
Jerry Michalski: Oh, okay, so that's the curtain and the windows right behind it, which are both behind you. I thought you were against a wall, and it was a shadow being cast on the wall, but I was reading the image back wrong. See? Reality is fuzzy anyway.
Jerry Michalski: Anyway, thanks for… thanks for being here.
Jerry Michalski: Anyone want to take any of Gil's 5, 6, 7 questions and expand on them, play with them, add to them, whatever?
Alex Kladitis: Can I just make one point?
Jerry Michalski: Please. I've recently watched.
Alex Kladitis: we're in the middle of Series 2, something called The Capture, on Netflix.
Alex Kladitis: Anyone seen that?
Alex Kladitis: No idea why it didn't get more traction. Came out, the first series in 2019 or thereabouts. Second series in 2022.
Jerry Michalski: Vick Henry, I guess it just landed on it.
Alex Kladitis: the capture.
Jerry Michalski: Huh.
Alex Kladitis: If you want to take on board what Gil was saying about you can't… can't believe what you see, or whatever.
Alex Kladitis: I think in 2019, it would have been way ahead of its time.
Alex Kladitis: Now….
Jerry Michalski: Okay.
Alex Kladitis: I almost saw it as a documentary, but anyway, it's an interesting play on… you cannot believe what, you know, what you see anymore, and whatever. It's a very….
Jerry Michalski: I can read the Netflix blurb, which is right to the point, that says, an ambitious London detective takes on a case involving an Afghanistan war veteran that drags her into a shadowy world where nothing is what it seems.
Alex Kladitis: And it… just watch it, that's all I can say. Cool!
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: There are about 3 dozen movies with the same one-liner.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, no, nothing is what it seems. Well, there's also the truth is out there.
Alex Kladitis: This is a… this is a slightly different…
Alex Kladitis: Take on… nothing's what it seems.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, yeah.
Alex Kladitis: Watch it. It'll be good.
Jerry Michalski: So the series premiered in 2019.
Alex Kladitis: Yeah.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you. Anyone else want to take us, ….
Klaus Mager: Yeah.
Jerry Michalski: I guess it… please.
Klaus Mager: I would, … I'm actually more…
Klaus Mager: distraught by, this in-your-face reality.
Klaus Mager: like, for example, you know, the Texas redistricting effort, Not to steal 5 seeds.
Klaus Mager: And no one caring whether this is, you know, understood as reality or not.
Klaus Mager: I mean, the brutality of this, to just, what are you gonna do about it, kind of thing. So you don't even have to misconstrue reality, you know? It's, …
Klaus Mager: You know, you are in a modern 21st century society faced with, …
Klaus Mager: watching things that shouldn't happen, you know? And here they do. And so the… there's… and they're spinning it in ways where they're, whatever, 30, 40% of the population that are in favor of all this.
Klaus Mager: just go along with the argumentations. The Democrats are doing it, everybody does it, or the Democrats are doing it worse, and so on. And so that's really distressing.
Jerry Michalski: Now, redistricting is messing… it's very real. I mean, what you're describing to me is barefists politics that's happening, because usually redistricting happens every decade or so after the census.
Jerry Michalski: Trump is also trying to mess with the census and change how the census is collected and who counts and all that, so that's happening. But this Texas move is unusual because it's very obviously a play to win more votes and keep, you know, the House or whatever. And Newsom had a clever answer to it, except if you look at all the states that are in play, apparently there are… there's more wiggle room in red states than blue states, so that
Jerry Michalski: could be a losing battle if it cascades across the states, all of which is terrible, because I think we should have statistical districting. We should… we should actually force districts to be roughly, like.
Jerry Michalski: representative in some… in some neutral way, so that we can't do the gerrymandering thing, which I promise I did not invent.
Jerry Michalski: …
Jerry Michalski: and figure out, like, how this all might work. But we… I think we're just terribly stupid about this, so we've allowed these districts to become weapons, political weapons. But…
Jerry Michalski: But I don't know if that's the melting of reality, Klaus, is it? Is it to you?
Klaus Mager: Well, I'm just mentioning this as an example. I mean, there are dozens of other things where you just know, you know, the system is being gamed, and they're doing it no matter what you think about it.
Klaus Mager: And, and it's… they don't even… I mean, it's not even really an attempt to hide it, it's just out in the….
Jerry Michalski: Agreed. Alex?
Alex Kladitis: Does anybody else want to talk? I've spoken quite a lot so far, so anyone else want to get in?
Jerry Michalski: They can put their hand up.
Alex Kladitis: Okay.
Jerry Michalski: As you did. Go for it.
Alex Kladitis: Thank you. So, … It is… amazes me how much our… free, democratic…
Alex Kladitis: Western… whatever brilliant system we have.
Alex Kladitis: basically tolerates, to me its corruption. It's not even a pretense of corruption. Gerrymandering, no matter which country you do it in.
Alex Kladitis: it is you doing it in your favor. Even when you say, I mean, in the UK, we have a neutral, independent board that does this or that, forget it. It's as compromised as everything else. Magically, the border changes seem to favor the party in power.
Alex Kladitis: And it just absolutely amazes me how we tolerate it, but it's the machinery of the system.
Alex Kladitis: And… nothing seems to stop it. I mean, literally, we're talking about it.
Alex Kladitis: And we tolerate it, you know, we just said, well, nothing to do, well, you know that.
Alex Kladitis: And to me, it amazes me that we talk about democracy and all the rest of the values we have, and I could go on about crony capitalism, but let's leave that for another time.
Alex Kladitis: And yet…
Alex Kladitis: we don't question it. It's just so low in our worry… in our worry… things to worry about.
Jerry Michalski: I think some people are questioning it.
Jerry Michalski: I think some people are questioning it, they're just ineffectual. I mean, there are people yelling about these problems, but they're not winning any major vote or anything like that.
Jerry Michalski: It's not complete… it's not completely below everybody's radar. There are people shouting, this is, you know, really terrible.
Alex Kladitis: But the press and everyone doesn't question it. They don't kind of say, oh, you know, the mainstream press we're talking about, okay, if you go off-piste, you know, I'm sure that everybody will have a different opinion. But the main…
Alex Kladitis: players.
Alex Kladitis: Don't seem to challenge it. Challenge is the right word. Challenge it.
Alex Kladitis: And I don't know if anyone will say anything more about the gerrymandering thing. I've got something else to do with we can't believe what we see anymore, but that's….
Jerry Michalski: Yeah.
Alex Kladitis: leave us a link.
Jerry Michalski: We can go there. I did want to throw in that, just to what you just said, Alex, I'm… there's a thought in my brain, T91,
Jerry Michalski: Which is the 91 indictments that Trump was under. And I was tracking the 5 or 6 different cases in all the different courts, and I was pretty sure that one of them would be very hard to evade and pin, you know, pin on, and would pin him to the wall somehow. And they managed very elegantly to evade
Jerry Michalski: all of them, and are currently weaponizing the Department of Justice and other parts of the government to attack all the people who were persecuting them. And the system's lack of ability
Jerry Michalski: to stop corruption and to roll it up and do something about it has astonished me. I've been blown away by that. And then a part of that whole thing is to scrub history later.
Jerry Michalski: and figure out how you can sort of change everybody's perception of events, or whatever, whatever. And this is very dangerous, because we humans are very adaptable, and anything you say three times is true.
Jerry Michalski: Which is the Bellman's Fallacy from Lewis Carroll. And so, in the middle of all this.
Jerry Michalski: one problem is we don't have a common memory, we don't have a common place to put things, but the other one is that everything is becoming squishier, and if you want to head in that direction, Alex, please do.
Alex Kladitis: My only comment on… on… sorry, on the… on the… Trump situation.
Alex Kladitis: I could have a pretty… you'd think I was crazy with the theories I have about things.
Alex Kladitis: I'll throw this… this is what I didn't… isn't what I wanted to say, but I'll throw one thing in.
Alex Kladitis: President Trump has… do we agree that he's stopped illegal immigration across the border or not?
Alex Kladitis: I don't know, it's….
Jerry Michalski: It's way, it's way down.
Alex Kladitis: So… The sell is that it's way down, okay?
Jerry Michalski: Nope.
Alex Kladitis: I want you to think about this.
Alex Kladitis: All that, no matter what you think, all that migration, 95% of it was done by people tra… the mafia, basically. Illegal…
Alex Kladitis: entities, right?
Alex Kladitis: So, he's taken away from them between $50 and $100 billion a year.
Alex Kladitis: My life experience tells me that you don't take 50 or 100 billion
Alex Kladitis: Out of the… someone's… those kind of people's mitts, hands.
Alex Kladitis: And live to tell a tale.
Alex Kladitis: And he's quite happily doing it, and it's fairly safe. I'm not saying he's part of it, don't even think I'm saying that, I'm not.
Alex Kladitis: But whatever power he has, It is a lot of power.
Alex Kladitis: And I don't know under what… you know, it's legal power, but he's managed to do it. So do not underestimate.
Alex Kladitis: The man's ability to do things.
Alex Kladitis: Right? And I think it's doing it legally, I don't think it's doing anything wrong. But anyway, that's… on the issue of, …
Alex Kladitis: Of the, … so don't underestimate.
Alex Kladitis: what that man can do. That's all I'm saying. On the other issue of We don't know what's…
Alex Kladitis: what's stable anymore. I was literally today speaking to a friend of mine, where we kind of… okay, my background is so diverse that I never believe anyone or anything.
Alex Kladitis: I listened to the
Alex Kladitis: say, oh, they could have started this way, they gave it 5 minutes instead of 2, they gave it 2 instead of 10 seconds, or whatever. You know, I'm always in this world of.
Alex Kladitis: Whatever.
Alex Kladitis: And I was talking to this other person who was more or less in league, and we agreed that right now.
Alex Kladitis: Whether we're left or right or center, we have no idea what the hell is going on.
Alex Kladitis: It used to be that I used to know my position. I used to see clearly what's going on.
Jerry Michalski: But what's going on at the moment.
Alex Kladitis: I have… I have… I can… Guess.
Alex Kladitis: you know, you call me a conspiracy theorist as to what's going on, but I cannot for certain say what's going on, because everything is like, I thought, this is what would happen, this is what happened, and it's all in flux.
Alex Kladitis: And I will say, just as an example.
Alex Kladitis: That's something that I don't think… I don't think was reported in the mainstream press.
Alex Kladitis: That… do you know that on the day
Alex Kladitis: President Putin went to meet Trump in Alaska. That morning, before he left, He signed papers authorizing
Alex Kladitis: American energy companies, ExxonMobil to be precise, to be able to go and do business in Russia.
Alex Kladitis: That morning before I left the flight, he signed those papers.
Alex Kladitis: Right? And that's a fact, I'm not making it up. That is….
Jerry Michalski: Are you sure that's a fact?
Alex Kladitis: Good.
Alex Kladitis: It is a fact, yes.
Alex Kladitis: Okay, so….
Jerry Michalski: part of our conversation here. Yeah.
Alex Kladitis: Yeah. So, so… there's things afoot that I have no idea what's… Coming next.
Alex Kladitis: Okay, because, by the way, these laws or whatever against foreign companies and energy came in after the sanctions came in and whatever, so Russia retaliated with these things. But specifically in energy, Putin signed a decree saying that they can come back in.
Alex Kladitis: So… and then he went to meet Trump.
Alex Kladitis: Was there a condition to meeting Trump?
Alex Kladitis: What? I have no idea anymore what….
Jerry Michalski: Ma'am.
Alex Kladitis: what is going on? You know, is it financial? Is it politics? Is it international? Whatever?
Alex Kladitis: And what are we going to do with Rockin' Man in the corner there, top left corner, top right corner of the map?
Alex Kladitis: Well, top left for you guys, but top right for me.
Jerry Michalski: Which man?
Alex Kladitis: Kenjim in North Korean person.
Jerry Michalski: Oh, oh, North Korea, sorry, yeah, rocket, that rocket thing. Yeah, yeah.
Alex Kladitis: I mean, here's the force.
Alex Kladitis: So, either the Russians have to control him.
Alex Kladitis: Because I'm sure America doesn't want him uncontrolled, so what's… what's… where's the deal in that? That's where my brain goes, by the way, because.
Jerry Michalski: Damn.
Alex Kladitis: weird, and… But there's so many things at play, I have no idea anymore.
Jerry Michalski: Let's go meta a little bit on the topic, so that we can kind of look at… let's not talk about specific facts or things, but rather the effect of
Jerry Michalski: of… of the melting on us, if we can. Alright, Gil?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So, …
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Alex, if you could please share with us your sources for the Exxon story and the Mafia revenue story. I haven't seen those, and I'd love to run those down.
Alex Kladitis: The source… hold on, hold on.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So let's put them in favor.
Alex Kladitis: Revenue is my fault.
Alex Kladitis: My thought… my thought is the Mafia revenue, okay?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Oh, okay.
Alex Kladitis: what I meant.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Okay, got it.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Thank you. And, and the Exxon story, if you could put something in the chat on that, that would be great.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The, … you know, the immigrate… the borders seem to have been shut down. The Times reported this morning that immigrant population in the United States is down a million and a half, declined for the first time in, like, a really long time. That's not just illegals, of course, that's a lot of other people.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Who have split.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Because it doesn't feel safe to them here. …
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I think it's not accurate to say we don't know what's going on, you know, with the… Jerry, you were talking about the, the, the, the rolling out of the,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: of the Trump authoritarian strategy. This was all laid out in enormous detail in Project 2025.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: 900-some-odd page strategy document. Last time I checked, which was 3 weeks ago, I'm sure the number is higher, 42% of the initiatives in Project 25 had been implemented. The game plan was there.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Out in the open, and let's say, you know, nobody, in quotes, believed they were going to really do that, and they've just been marching through and executing.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And they have identified and exploited the weak points in the checks and balances system.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That lets them get away with things, or, you know, face court actions. There have been a couple of hundred major court actions brought. They've lost most of them.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But the question of enforceability remains. And so, you know, I see our lawyer nodding his head there. It's like a big legal mess, a carefully constructed constitutional checks and balances system that had some flaws in it, one of which is that it presumed good faith.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: on the part of the actors, and it didn't provide for checks and balances against not good faith, so we've got that. So we know that that's what's happening.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But to Alex's other point about, I have no idea what's coming next, you said, Alex?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That's the fucking reality right now.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And we've… all of us lived our lives with some amount of expectation and predictability of what would unfold next within certain kind of boundaries, and that game seems to be over for now. And so the big question is, how do we live in the midst of utter uncertainty?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know, optimism, pessimism is not the question anymore, because you can't predict anything anymore. And so how do you live, and how do you move, and how do you… you, we, I, how do we be effective in a world of such uncertainty, you know, and standing on quicksand instead of on granite?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: How do we, you know, how do we live and, be and, you know, feel, you know, feel reasonably human and, you know, and live a creative, contributory life with each other in that world? That's, you know, that's where I go with these questions.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Since you teed it up that way, Alex, thank you.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I'm complete.
Jerry Michalski: Doug, please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Or the moment.
Doug Breitbart: So…
Doug Breitbart: If everything in the theme of reality, if everything is… Period.
Doug Breitbart: And the universe of possibilities that…
Doug Breitbart: are presenting themselves and happening are…
Doug Breitbart: The question… the living question… to me.
Doug Breitbart: Has more to do with, as a person, as a human being.
Doug Breitbart: … What… what would it take For me to… reorient.
Doug Breitbart: And recognize and acknowledge… that, in fact, I don't have any control over anything.
Doug Breitbart: beyond my skin.
Doug Breitbart: And extrapolating that.
Doug Breitbart: In, you know, larger… Collaborative context, collective context, legal, administrative, you know, territorial context.
Doug Breitbart: …
Doug Breitbart: you know, Western culture and civilization is rooted in the opposite belief, that somehow we actually have dominion and control over things.
Doug Breitbart: And that things are predictable when they're not.
Doug Breitbart: And that by force of will, we have the ability to control reality.
Doug Breitbart: Which we can't.
Doug Breitbart: So, you know, the cultural, societal, evolutionary delusion.
Rick Botelho: It's at the root of everything.
Doug Breitbart: ends up… Making the active ingredients in all of this individual attachment.
Doug Breitbart: To a set of beliefs.
Doug Breitbart: A set of projections, a set of… Fears, a set of attachments.
Doug Breitbart: That are subjective truths.
Doug Breitbart: And… groups of people that share the same subjective delusion.
Doug Breitbart: Find each other.
Doug Breitbart: Now, the reality is, We're all in the same soup.
Doug Breitbart: We all live on the same planet. We all breathe the same air.
Doug Breitbart: We share it with a whole bunch of other living creatures that are not our species.
Doug Breitbart: We're subject to the forces and powers of the natural world, whether we like it or not.
Doug Breitbart: And… the actions we take have consequences that affect ourselves, others, and the rest of the planet.
Doug Breitbart: And…
Doug Breitbart: At least for me, … Figuring out how to recognize that they are us.
Doug Breitbart: That we're all… of a part.
Doug Breitbart: Of the same hole.
Doug Breitbart: Is the first step.
Doug Breitbart: And second, corollary, that I have no power, control, authority, or ability to affect anybody or anything else.
Doug Breitbart: The only living thing that I have control over is me.
Doug Breitbart: and what I do with me.
Doug Breitbart: And my words, my actions… And my consciousness or awareness of how I'm affecting others.
Doug Breitbart: … And… and I'm complete.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Doug.
Jerry Michalski: Close, please.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, Sherry, when you introduced this, our shared reality will self-destruct in the next 12 months. My mind was going into a completely different place.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, which is where?
Klaus Mager: Which is…
Klaus Mager: Of course, our reality is going to self-destruct, because the economic predictions and the rules that have been put in place are going to lead to consequences that are not intended.
Klaus Mager: So Dave Brooks did, … I listened to him, he is really on fire, you know, giving, presentations.
Klaus Mager: based on his Christian background.
Klaus Mager: No, I mean, he's a very faith-focused individual, New Testament-based.
Klaus Mager: And, …
Klaus Mager: He… he was going into this historic perspective of every time that you have an authoritarian regime.
Klaus Mager: And it doesn't matter if authoritarian left or right, it all ends up in the same place, you know, restricting individual freedoms.
Klaus Mager: Making decreed, decrease in economics and, and, policies that are, that are just nonsensical, or they are, they are, poorly conceived.
Klaus Mager: always leads into some sort of calamity. So…
Klaus Mager: You know, the economy is going to start crashing in multiple spots.
Rick Botelho: ticker.
Klaus Mager: For the most vulnerable people in the society.
Klaus Mager: So then what? Then that leads to authoritarianism, that leads to suppression. You know, that leads to violence, basically, to prevent people from expressing their opinions. So that's really more where I was going. Our reality is going to fall apart.
Klaus Mager: You know, because the promises that have been made,
Klaus Mager: when the big, beautiful budget bill was passed, for example, are not going to turn out the way they were presented, then what?
Klaus Mager: you know, then it doesn't matter what pictures are being falsified, because this is real. I don't have food, you know, my food stamps.
Rick Botelho: Easter.
Klaus Mager: canceled. My medical bill, my Medicare just got… Medicaid just got canceled. You know, this is the way, this is, this is real and raw for a significant share of the population.
Jerry Michalski: I'm possi…
Jerry Michalski: what you're saying is true for a moment and a perspective on politics, but what you're saying isn't that different from people saying what Biden's actions and policies were going to be was going to destroy the country because
Jerry Michalski: name your… name your other, you know, from the other side of the field, looking at politics, oh my god, we're all gonna die because the country's gonna be in a mess. So, what you're describing is normal, I think, normal politics playing out these days in a more… it seems, in a much more extreme way, because previous
Jerry Michalski: Political actors didn't try to shred the government, like, like, immediately, you know, putting a dagger, into its, into its carotid.
Jerry Michalski: But… It doesn't seem… it seems like extreme, but not unusual politics. No?
Klaus Mager: I see it different, because… Somebody is losing health insurance.
Jerry Michalski: But that….
Klaus Mager: Supposing somebody's paying their food stamps.
Klaus Mager: The food bank just ran out of food, you know, because their crayons got cut off. The local NGO that has done Meals on Wheels, for example, just lost their funding.
Klaus Mager: That's real stuff, you know, that's not some political theory.
Jerry Michalski: But a lot of places that lost government funding, their donations went way up, and I don't know, I haven't looked at all of these things, but part of what the big shake-up is about is redistributing how these things work in the world, and fixing perceived
Jerry Michalski: flaws in how to fix social problems. That's, I think, the Project 2025 agenda, is to implement an entirely different regime of how to deal with
Jerry Michalski: the country, the government, belief systems, et cetera, et cetera, like it or not. And these things happen periodically in this country. The big deal, the far-right conservatives have been fighting the big deal since the 30s, since the big deal. They hated it, the New Deal. And also the Great Society later, under LBJ.
Jerry Michalski: And the far right thinks that the whole country has been screwed up completely by these programs, and these are the programs that are being presently undermined. So for them, this is a big circle back to a better time when we didn't have so much reliance on government, blah blah blah blah blah, but it's a political conversation.
Jerry Michalski: For me. And these political conversations have enormous human consequences.
Jerry Michalski: Right. Because politics is so big, and has so many, you know, influences everywhere, and can take money and shift it around, and build stuff and do stuff, or hurt people, so….
Klaus Mager: We're talking about $1 trillion taken out of the base-off permit economy, $1 trillion. You know, the $290 billion out of SNAP.
Klaus Mager: Those numbers are not even… are not recoverable at the state level, so they lead to major disruptions that no one is dialing in on. I mean, but no one's paying attention.
Klaus Mager: Okay.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you. Rick?
Rick Botelho: Yeah, I was off-camera because I was eating breakfast, and I was listening attentively, and, you know, just maybe to dovetail on what Klaus was just saying. Actually, I'm hoping for a profound economic depression that will demonstrate,
Rick Botelho: how, ineffective the counter-response may be in accommodating these huge deficits in, social support services. So…
Rick Botelho: What I'm hoping, actually, is the opposite. That it won't be a turn to authoritarianism, it will be a turn against it.
Rick Botelho: Because the adversity is going to be so bad that people are going to say.
Rick Botelho: Or maybe this isn't working. Having said that, I do want to acknowledge something that was said earlier, which is, you know, reality is in the perceptions and biases of the observers.
Rick Botelho: Which means the people who are least well-informed, who still drink the Trump Kool-Aid, will have to say, hey, this Kool-Aid isn't working for me.
Rick Botelho: And so, I framed a question which I will do a deep dive into, and we don't have time to do a deep dive into this one.
Rick Botelho: But I want to return to a theme last week of where I was, proposing complex questions.
Rick Botelho: And, you know, Jerry, you asked me to, you know, ask me about curiosity and whatever. I'll respond to that later.
Rick Botelho: But the whole point of compound philosophical questions is they're designed not to be understood on first reading.
Rick Botelho: That's the whole purpose, to get out of our fast-thinking mode of instant clarity and comprehension.
Rick Botelho: They are… this is our reductionist mindset that's propagated by the business community, the marketing community, which reinforces
Rick Botelho: the MAGA brand, and supports it.
Rick Botelho: So people will keep on believing, having blind faith in the MAGA bank.
Rick Botelho: So I'm going to put a question in, and if people want to pursue it, that's fine. I'm going to pursue it offline as people are… and I've already started doing an AI search on this question. I'm not going to read it out either, because you're not supposed to read them out.
Rick Botelho: you're supposed to take it piecemeal, digest it a little bit. What does that mean? How does it relate to this? What's the interconnections with this, that, and the other?
Rick Botelho: And that is anti-Kiss.
Rick Botelho: And I've mentioned this before, the KISS principle, which is keep sophistication this side of simplicity.
Rick Botelho: The problem is that we're so locked into reductions thinking that we are disabled from dealing with complexity. So I'll put the question in, read it. If you want to respond to it, that's fine. I'm going to do a deep dive.
Rick Botelho: and demonstrate how you can use HEN. I won't explain what that means, because I got a question about last week. You need some time to digest it, guys! And I will show you next week, if I can make it.
Rick Botelho: What you can generate as
Rick Botelho: A learning module to co-elevate our
Rick Botelho: Generative dialogues… generative and strategic dialogues about how to deal with our
Rick Botelho: complex entanglement of self-inflicted wicked problems, which we're failing to address, and all I'm hoping for is let the depression come, because incompetence deserves it.
Rick Botelho: And when it comes, let the pain be so bad that people are gonna say, hey, I don't want to drink, Don Pecom's Fool Aid anymore. I'm Rick and I'm done speaking.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Rick.
Jerry Michalski: …
Jerry Michalski: I'm… I'm interested in… A little bit puzzled that we haven't really talked about facts melting
Jerry Michalski: and other things happening, and what effects that might have on society. We kind of haven't gone there much at all.
Jerry Michalski: And I want to maybe change the conversation a little bit by heading toward that topic, but on the positive side.
Jerry Michalski: Because I think there's… there are some…
Jerry Michalski: Positive aspects to, what's happening to reality.
Jerry Michalski: And the biggest one I can see is, it might actually drive us closer together.
Jerry Michalski: For example, oh my god, every student can use ChatGPT now to cheat on every exam and every resume and every job application. Oh my god, oh my god, they're getting harder, if not impossible, to detect. Oh my god, civilization is doomed. I'm like.
Jerry Michalski: Well, no, we used to do oral exams, and it's really, really hard to sit in front of somebody and bullshit credibly for an hour.
Jerry Michalski: about a topic you're supposed to have mastered. Like, mastery shows up in interaction. This is what apprenticeships are really, really great for. I remember years ago, talking to the guy who founded the University of the Earth in Oaxaca, and he said.
Jerry Michalski: If you think you might want to be an agricultural lawyer, we can get you an internship with one right away.
Jerry Michalski: And in a couple months, you will probably know that this is a career for you or not. In a year, they will know how you're going to fit, what you need to learn, etc, etc, and the process lets you, you know, try things out pretty quickly. And I'm like, what if the melting of
Jerry Michalski: intermediated reality.
Jerry Michalski: Meaning, the image of Doug sitting right now in one of the little squares in my grid view of the Zoom.
Jerry Michalski: is intermediated reality, and for all I know, it's actually an avatar, and Doug is out on his bicycle, like, like, you know, exercising, and he's just had… he's commissioned a bot to look like him sitting calmly in a chair.
Jerry Michalski: But when Doug and I are sitting in a cafe together, I think that's gonna be very hard to spoof.
Jerry Michalski: And the fact that, you know, we have time logged in conversations like these, where I think, more or less it was actually him and all that, that's great, that's fantastic. So it might be that all of this digital artifice drives us back into analog reality, and into the comfort and
Jerry Michalski: Mystery and sometimes, unpredictability of, you know, us squishy meat… bags of meat, and the things that… the funny things that we do.
Jerry Michalski: … But, yeah.
Jerry Michalski: Stacy, did you miss something? What do you mean?
Stacey Druss: Oh, no. Sorry, that was not meant to go to everybody.
Jerry Michalski: Oh, okay, sorry. Yeah, that went to everybody, and do you mean about Rick's post in the chat?
Jerry Michalski: No. Oh, something else, okay.
Jerry Michalski: … Alex, you're muted.
Alex Kladitis: I was just gonna say, I think, Stacey, you can delete your, your com… your…
Alex Kladitis: If you click on it or something. I think you can delete it, can't you?
Alex Kladitis: If you want to. Might be possible.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah.
Stacey Druss: Thank you, Alice.
Jerry Michalski: …
Jerry Michalski: So yeah, so for me, that's a positive side of all of this. Don't know if you all agree, disagree.
Jerry Michalski: Care about it.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, I mean, I just submitted a project to Business Oregon, which they accepted, and they're asking for business partners to join.
Klaus Mager: To rethink the local food system.
Klaus Mager: And, to, to anticipate, you know, the, the, …
Klaus Mager: changes that will happen to the funding source, funding levels of soup kitchens, and food banks, and meals on wheels, and school meals, because they all got, like, you know, categorically hit. So how do you… how do you deal with this? Well, you have to, you know, come… come and… and…
Klaus Mager: Build a community-based response where everyone has to pull in, including
Klaus Mager: you know, Cisco, and US Foods, and Walmart, and, you know, the big, the big companies.
Klaus Mager: So, my hope is that something really good can come out of this, because rather than putting money, putting band-aids out there to feed the people without any change inside, maybe
Klaus Mager: Maybe we can do something to fundamentally change the economics of the base, which right now is an extractive
Klaus Mager: system, you know, by national, multinational corporations, you know, why don't we try to make this self-sufficient instead?
Jerry Michalski: Love that. And then my own energies and intentions are in that direction a lot. It's like, well, when things are broken, it's a chance to re-engineer things, and they were badly designed before this mess hit. So why don't we try to find ways where things actually work beautifully.
Jerry Michalski: or better, and make it… make them flexible enough that people can appropriate them, et cetera, et cetera. We've had some of those conversations in other calls. Kaliyah, please.
Kaliya Identity Woman: Yeah, I mean, building on this, I… at Bioneers last year…
Kaliya Identity Woman: Maybe it was this… I went to… anyways.
Kaliya Identity Woman: There was a panel all about, like, the super cool, like, farm-to-school… school lunch stuff, where basically schools are buying directly from farmers and cooking the food on-site.
Kaliya Identity Woman: And I was like, okay, great, you're helping kids, but, like, I live alone, I cook all my own meals, organic, because I refuse to, like, engage with the industrial food system.
Kaliya Identity Woman: It's a lot, and like, I'm single, right? So…
Kaliya Identity Woman: you know, people with… anyways, so… and it just became super clear, especially… I've been radicalized against, like, ultra-processed food, which are, like, in everything. So, like, the Walmarts and the…
Kaliya Identity Woman: They're selling us shit. It's killing us. I mean, this is where RFK and Maha are right.
Kaliya Identity Woman: But what if we figured out how we had, like, community kitchens that were…
Kaliya Identity Woman: where people like me paid, and people on food stamps bought… because you can't buy hot food, right? So you have to figure out how you get bulk food shipped to, like, the site. People show up and buy rice, and then, like, carry it to the kitchen, and that's their payment.
Kaliya Identity Woman: So you're technically supporting them
Kaliya Identity Woman: And then they can get, like, hot food out of the community kitchen, and you're also potentially, like, having people spend an afternoon every month or every two weeks in the kitchen with their neighbors cooking for each other.
Kaliya Identity Woman: We need community right now, and we need… and I believe, like, food preparation is, like, actually… …
Kaliya Identity Woman: My experience when I do it in community is incredible. I'm like, it's just so positive, and that's what humans have been doing for literally millions of years. And we've now outsourced this sort of fundamental, like, thing to, like, corporations.
Kaliya Identity Woman: Like, it's very broken.
Kaliya Identity Woman: So… I had this whole vision, …
Kaliya Identity Woman: in this Bioneers meeting of, like, can we do what we're doing for school kids for, like, everybody?
Kaliya Identity Woman: I think there's inspiration from religious communities that feed people a lot. Like, the Sikhs really know how to feed people at scale. They do it. ….
Kaliya Identity Woman: Anyways, so those are my thoughts, building on what was just shared.
Jerry Michalski: Oh yeah, thank you. You reminded me of Jose Andres' op-ed recently in the Times, I just put a GIF link to it in the chat.
Jerry Michalski: Where he was writing about feeding people in Gaza, and he said, the problem with bulk food is that people are showing up, holding out their pan, and you're going to pour some raw rice into the pan?
Jerry Michalski: Like, that's not gonna work. And also that the interception and misuse of raw foods is what gangs and everybody else wants to do, has a fully functioning economy around. So if you can create kitchens that make hot food and distribute them small enough
Jerry Michalski: in enough places, everybody can just show up and get hot meals, and that works really well. And I think it's an extremely compelling
Jerry Michalski: solution to the famine that is hitting Gaza.
Jerry Michalski: But also, it's a very nice solution to the broader social issue you just described, Kalia. Because, you know, if everybody doesn't have to go source their own ingredients, cook their own thing, but we can show up and get to know one another, and sit together over meals, I think a lot of good things happen.
Jerry Michalski: But this is different from the commercial restaurant thing we have set up. It's quite different from the commercial restaurant thing we have set up. Then, restaurant food waste is a horrible thing. I, like, whenever I go to an event and I see a buffet.
Jerry Michalski: Especially a fancy event, and the buffet, at the end of the meal, they've kept the buffet full, so there is a whole mess of very edible food, and I don't really know what's going to happen to it that is filling those trays, because a nice hotel doesn't ever want these things to look empty.
Jerry Michalski: It's bad. Anyway, Klaus and others know way too much about all the brokenness of the current food system.
Jerry Michalski: Rick, please.
Rick Botelho: Yeah, just in response to what's just said, I just put a… for people who are not familiar with nutritionfacts.org.
Rick Botelho: It's Michael Greger's life's work on the effect of nutrition on health.
Rick Botelho: And it's evidence-based. He has a particular style that reminds me… I met him once, and I described him as the John Cleans of nutrition. He's a really nice, eccentric guy, and very knowledgeable. His latest book on how not to age is 600 pages through 20,000 references.
Rick Botelho: And talk about deep dive. You gotta… if you wanna know how not to age, you want to look at his book. I'm going through it at the moment. I tell you, there's so much information there, so many great tips. And it's all about what Klaus knows, which is nutrition, exercise, healthy lifestyle, social cohesion, stupid!
Rick Botelho: Anyway, that's my rant, but I will return to, … I'll leave this for you to look at later, Gerry.
Rick Botelho: Which is about curiosity and using compound questions, and I… I really took the things to heart last week when… when Mike was challenging me. Can you get it down to…
Rick Botelho: five to seven words short film, and my immediate reaction was, hell no!
Rick Botelho: We wanted to go in the opposite direction. If you've got something semantically dense, we should be curious about what the… what does that mean? What is humanism?
Rick Botelho: You know, how can AI actually help us?
Rick Botelho: Emancipatory learning? What's that? And we need new learning methods? What's that?
Rick Botelho: So I'm inviting you to take your time.
Rick Botelho: to reflect on something I've said there, and it challenges
Rick Botelho: the holy grail of some of the assumptions that are made in this group, and people have challenged me repeatedly on them, and I'm deciding, okay, I'm learning from you guys, and … whenever you encounter resistance to change.
Rick Botelho: It's a phenomenal opportunity to learn, and I have to go at the top of the hour, Jerry. So, you know, if you want to look at it, fine. If you don't, that's fine, but,
Rick Botelho: I will certainly share my output of the question I posed there, and put it in next week so that you can see how you can create a hand learning module that you can then use as a platform for generative dialogues.
Rick Botelho: I'm done speaking. Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Rick.
Jerry Michalski: …
Jerry Michalski: Sorry. I'm interested in what audience you do find, Rick, and who loves what you write, and I have a suspicion that your MO that you've just described for us, it works for somebody.
Jerry Michalski: I'm sure it does, because humans are really varied, et cetera, et cetera, and some people will like the puzzles you're putting in front of them.
Jerry Michalski: We've… several of us have just been reporting to you that your puzzles aren't working for us, and they don't work for me, and I agree with everything you're trying to convince us of.
Jerry Michalski: Like, when we sit here and talk, you and I are, like, on board. I think, yep, yep, yep, check, check, check, check, check, check, and then I go look at your writings, and I can't begin to get into them.
Jerry Michalski: Because they feel like you're putting everything into every post. Like, it's like a… it's like a hologram. Every post is a hologram of everything you care about, and like, I can't unpack every post that way. My brain doesn't follow that way, but I bet you some people's brains do.
Jerry Michalski: Right? And I don't know who those people are and what interactions you're having with them, and happy to help with that. But I'm just reporting back that what you've just told us is, you guys tried to give me advice, I listened to it carefully, but I'm not going to follow it, because….
Rick Botelho: That's not what I said.
Jerry Michalski: My approach is to give you the tangle and let you puzzle through it.
Jerry Michalski: That's what I heard.
Rick Botelho: Yeah, well, that's what you heard, that's not my perception, and that's your perception, and that's why we have to work through our classing perceptions.
Rick Botelho: And, so I would suggest you look at Section 2 of that. That is work in progress. And so, you know, I've talked about the KSSS principle, which is keep sophistication this side of simplicity.
Rick Botelho: And, this is a mindset shift, mindset shift from an educational paradigm that focuses on content
Rick Botelho: to a learning paradigm that focused on process. We've got too much friggin' content in the world, and we don't know how to process it. So we're disabled.
Rick Botelho: And so, I'm not, you know, I'm rolling with your resistance, not against it. I'm thinking, well, how could I maybe open some people's door to get a little inquisitive or curious? Okay, I don't understand what this question means, and I put one in, I'll come back and demonstrate. That's not a particularly complex question.
Rick Botelho: But it's the orientation that people bring that's predominantly reductionistic.
Rick Botelho: looking for instant clarity, instant comprehension with fast thinking, and we don't have… we haven't helped people overcome their indoctrination of fast thinking in order to enter the world of slow thinking. That's a different world.
Rick Botelho: And we can continue the conversation offline, or next week, thank you, but I have to go at the top of the hour.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Rick. Welcome to the call, Ken. As you have detected, likely, we're not particularly talking about the melting of reality and its effects, but we've had an interesting, sort of, journey through a bunch of other related things.
Jerry Michalski: …
Jerry Michalski: And, Alex, I think you were, interested in interjecting a moment ago. Did you want to pick that… pick up that thought, or… you good?
Alex Kladitis: Merely jokingly say, all these things are bought…
Alex Kladitis: being healthy by eating good food and whatever, you know, I'm all for it. Can someone give me a thing that says, if you'd eat this good food.
Alex Kladitis: You will be healthy, but you don't need to do the exercise with it.
Alex Kladitis: It's just… That will be the winner!
Jerry Michalski: That'll be the winner. We'll just use electrostimulation to pretend like we're working our muscles. Klaus!
Rick Botelho: Can I just interrupt there? All you have to do is… 150 minutes walking per week. It's not a big demand. That's the minimum, not a target, okay? So, Alex, I suspect there's a little hope for you. You may already be achieving your goals, and you don't even know that that is the minimum standard.
Stacey Druss: And Jerry Klaus, I wanted to interject something real quick, if I could. Just to Rick's thoughts about process. I just wanted to say that there's something very useful, and I'm not talking about the whole reading, I'm just talking about the question. There's something very useful
Stacey Druss: about just seeing where somebody tunes in, just in terms of gauging where their curiosity is. So for that, I do understand why Rick does what he does. Over.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you, Stacey.
Jerry Michalski: Mr. Mogger.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, just to spin out, that's not what I wanted to… what I raised my hand for, but just to spin this out, Rick, I use biodynamics to instruct the AI, well, but you're not instructing the AI to address an audience that you have preselected.
Klaus Mager: Right, because if you use biodynamics, …
Klaus Mager: and say this is, you know, an orange audience, or a blue audience, or a faith-based audience, or, you know, a environmentally-focused audience, then the AI will change its language, and you will not talk about humanist-guided AI-enabled emancipatory neo-learning.
Klaus Mager: Because no one understands what the hell that is. So that's sort of the, you know, the idea. So, I mean, maybe your, maybe your audience is, you know, quite narrow in this particular aspect, but if you want to be heard.
Klaus Mager: you know, then… then there's a lot of people who… who wouldn't dial in on this. But what I… what I wanted to… to… to, …
Klaus Mager: To mention, the other reality that we're facing is
Klaus Mager: that the business community is so strong that our best intentions don't materialize. So Kennedy, for example, had this great idea, you know, take chemicals out of food, because we're killing our children, you know, reduce the amount of processed foods.
Klaus Mager: And guess what? None of it made it through the Farm Bill, and made it through the latest regulatory hurdles. Nothing.
Jerry Michalski: Nothing?
Klaus Mager: And nothing. I mean, of course, the Sarah Club and all these groups that I'm traveling with, they are tracking this closely, and in great detail, and a lot of the… I mean, the Sarah Club had an internal debate before the election about supporting Kennedy or not.
Klaus Mager: And we collectively decided that it's the best of bad options to support Kennedy because of what he stands for.
Klaus Mager: And how strong he came on, and, you know, how much support he had. And he just crashed and burned. You know, another issue, for example, SNAP benefits, you're not allowed to buy a hot meal.
Klaus Mager: Now, so, you have soup kitchens.
Klaus Mager: who are not able to accept a SNAP voucher, you know, because it's a hot meal. And then you go, well, wait a second, I mean, you know, who makes up these rules? It's just an arbitrary rule.
Klaus Mager: You know, and in all reality, you should be able to change that rule, you know, bingo, gone. You know, now you can put money into soup kitchens, which employ local people. It can be a church that has a kitchen, you know, they can buy local food, so…
Klaus Mager: so the changes that the Heritage Foundation and, you know, these groups are really…
Klaus Mager: want to do, and what a lot of them I agree with, are common sense-based changes, are simply getting squished, you know, in the political process by corporations that have too much power. And Trump is not…
Klaus Mager: this Trump administration is not the group that's going to challenge this power. So that's what I'm saying, as reality unfolds over the next few months, you know, we will recognize some
Klaus Mager: Some serious bottlenecks that, you know, where… where story changes from… from impact and reality.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Hans.
Jerry Michalski: Rick, back to you.
Rick Botelho: Well, I just have to respond to you, Klaus. I agree with you, and let me be clear or something about something. I've heard this feedback repeatedly, and I think I… you don't know how I'm listening to you and responding to it, so it's a presumption of you, Jerry, to say I'm not listening.
Jerry Michalski: No, no, no, I went and looked at your post.
Rick Botelho: Go on the book that you post?
Jerry Michalski: Which I assumed to be a reply to what we're telling you. And it was nothing like that.
Rick Botelho: Well, I'm talking about here and now, about you saying… you said it a moment ago, you can go back and replay it, and see whether my perception of what you said was what I said. So, this is where we need to have some healthy disagreements.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Could you guys take this offline?
Jerry Michalski: And Rick, let's not, let's not tap the whole group with this.
Rick Botelho: No, well, let me, let me just finish, Klaus.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: No, Rick, Rick, could you take this offline?
Rick Botelho: No.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm kidding jacked here.
Rick Botelho: Well, that's okay. Let's just hang in there for a second, let me finish my.
Jerry Michalski: That's beer.
Rick Botelho: Before you interrupt me.
Rick Botelho: All I was going to say, Klaus, I'm doing a search on the very question that you asked, and I will share it if people are interested in how to explain that construct.
Rick Botelho: Using spiral dynamics. I do it differently, I do it on reading level, that's fine.
Rick Botelho: But what I am impressed with is how this is triggering certain people and, going off-screen.
Rick Botelho: And that's fine. I think we need to have more healthy disagreements, because I don't think we're good at it, and people don't listen. They get their… they get emotionally hijacked and leave or turn out.
Rick Botelho: That's something that reflexivity is worthwhile using to understand that process. And I said I had to leave at the top of the hour, I'm sorry to leave, but I will leave at the request of Gil for reasons other than his request. Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: I don't think he requested you leave, I think he just requested that we take that issue offline, which we are doing now. Anyway, excuse me. Alex, please.
Alex Kladitis: Only, …
Alex Kladitis: Well, the issue that we were talking earlier on, I actually wasn't here last week, so I don't know what the red conversation's really about, but I did put up Spiral Dynamics, I'm intrigued by the colors on the webpage. But, so I'll look at it later, but…
Alex Kladitis: I think it was Klaas that said that when…
Alex Kladitis: Whatever the current administration is doing hits the buffers.
Alex Kladitis: People will wake up.
Alex Kladitis: That's not my experience.
Alex Kladitis: Remember, the reason this administration's there, as far as I'm concerned, is because the previous ones and one before, and the one before that didn't do the right thing. And we have administrations that are the opposite political perspective from the US one, and trust me, they're not doing anything either.
Alex Kladitis: Everything we just spoke about, Hardly anything gets really done.
Alex Kladitis: So, what I was going to say was, and I'm not challenging what you said, because I think
Alex Kladitis: You're basically right.
Alex Kladitis: But people's capacity to say, It was bad before, at least he tried.
Alex Kladitis: Because that is how previous UK political parties have stayed in power and won elections, one after the other after the other, by saying, look, at least we're trying, maybe we didn't fail, but if the other people come in, they're the monsters, you don't want it. And literally, they kept getting the votes.
Alex Kladitis: So, I'm just urging a bit of caution on…
Alex Kladitis: When the train hits the buffer.
Alex Kladitis: That people are going to change their minds.
Alex Kladitis: And then there comes the politics, how many are middle-of-the-ground people, and what happens, and, you know, gerrymandering, and all the rest of it. But that was just my… people's capacity to excuse is quite dramatically
Alex Kladitis: It's very deep.
Alex Kladitis: That was my, my, my point, really.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Alex. To excuse, and also, I think, to forget.
Jerry Michalski: And maybe just to adapt. Like, oh, new reality, okay, I guess I'll just live with this new reality.
Jerry Michalski: Partly also, I think, we're overwhelmed.
Alex Kladitis: Yeah, exactly. But they also… their ability for the UK side, their ability to paint the other side as the monsters was quite…
Alex Kladitis: Impressive.
Alex Kladitis: With the support of the press, mainly, the mainstream media.
Jerry Michalski: Right. And….
Alex Kladitis: I don't know how that is reflected in the US, because I don't look at any US press, really, so….
Jerry Michalski: This has been a strange call for me, because I feel like we've sort of glided nowhere near the topic I thought I had proposed, which is fine, that's how we roll.
Alex Kladitis: Can you propose.
Jerry Michalski: Oh my god.
Alex Kladitis: So we can maybe pick up on it now.
Jerry Michalski: Well, the question was.
Jerry Michalski: If the things we're pointing to, if the artifacts we're pointing to, are now no longer reliable, because anything can be faked or made up.
Jerry Michalski: and somebody can pose as Obama, like, supporting Trump, which I think will be a cold day in hell when that happens.
Jerry Michalski: But, you know, you could make a very credible deepfake of that and post it, and then once everybody's sort of written about it, it sort of melds its way into the human consciousness, and we adapt, and all these things are having some effect on society.
Jerry Michalski: And, there might be a couple silver linings. I tried to point to one, which is we might be driven back to an analog presence with each other, which I would like. I think that's a good answer… a good outcome. But what else, and what… how do we handle this? You know, if we think that this is imminent.
Jerry Michalski: And, and then there's also, will these large language models eat their own tail?
Jerry Michalski: Because the synthetic output that they're training themselves on is now going to be more numerous, more voluminous than the human output that we're worried that they're training themselves on, which is a series of complicated questions all interacting right there.
Jerry Michalski: What happens? How does this play out? Go ahead, Ox.
Alex Kladitis: Can I make a couple points on this? Which was….
Jerry Michalski: Yeah.
Alex Kladitis: Mostly, the, … Okay.
Alex Kladitis: How do I say this?
Alex Kladitis: people
Alex Kladitis: you'll be… okay, we… we question things. We're interested in the… a bit more, the next layer down, let's say. Some of you are really, really good thinkers all the way very deep, but generally, in our forum, we question the next layer of
Alex Kladitis: let me call it reality, because that's what I… that's what I'll call it in a lazy academic fashion.
Alex Kladitis: You… what is your experience? Because my experience is that a hell of a lot of people do not care anymore. They care about the fact that things are getting expensive.
Alex Kladitis: But I don't think they care whether the news is real or not.
Alex Kladitis: And… how is that going to change? So, it's your point, Gerry.
Alex Kladitis: But I'm thinking, your point's relevant to us, very relevant to us. There's a whole load of people that watch the news, don't listen to the radio news, there isn't music.
Alex Kladitis: And is that something that you guys experience as well?
Jerry Michalski: Sure. This is one of the outcome… this is one of the outcomes of the flood the zone with shit strategy that is currently being employed, is that when you confuse everybody about everything, they give up.
Jerry Michalski: And when they've given up, they're way easier to steer towards stuff, and they're… sometimes they'll seize on things that are particularly stupid or strong because they seem strong, for example. But we're seeing that a ton. I think that… that that dynamic has been influencing our last several electoral cycles, etc, etc. And then.
Jerry Michalski: When people are overwhelmed and confused, they give up.
Jerry Michalski: Anybody else's….
Alex Kladitis: What does that mean?
Jerry Michalski: What else? What does that mean? What… Anybody else worried about this?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yes.
Jerry Michalski: I remember… go ahead, Klaus.
Klaus Mager: It brings me back to a different way of looking at this breaking reality, yeah?
Klaus Mager: Because at some point in time, you can be flooded with images that are confusing, and stories that are depicting a reality that simply doesn't exist.
Klaus Mager: But when it hits you, and you lose your health insurance, and you lose your food access.
Klaus Mager: Then that's a different story. That's when… when it gets real. Now, and then you can only blame so many. So… so that's…
Klaus Mager: And that's, you know, what I was referring to earlier for when Dave Poles, you know, laid this thing out. Historically, you know, that's when an autocrat turns into suppression… suppression and violence.
Klaus Mager: And then you can't control the story anymore, no matter what fancy tools you have.
Klaus Mager: People don't respond to, to being misled any longer because it's real, it's personal, it's, it's, it's hurting you, you know, and, and then, and then… I mean, look, they're already, they're already setting in place, preventive measures for people to get into the street.
Klaus Mager: Right? I mean, you're already deploying a militarized force, so in case you have protests breaking out, they're already ready for that. So this is… I mean, we're gonna head into October, November is when these cuts really start hitting.
Jerry Michalski: ….
Klaus Mager: And no one's focused on it. People are simply, maybe they're not focused on it.
Jerry Michalski: So…
Jerry Michalski: again, I'll say some people are very focused on this, like, really worried about it, and I think there's an interesting sense… sense-making question here. So, one of the things I've been tracking is, hey, I… logically.
Jerry Michalski: if you look at the Trump tariff war, that should be causing economic chaos. Then prices should be rising, we should be spiking inflation, stuff like that. Not happening yet. Employment is really full, inflation hasn't spiked, and there's a bunch of economic thinkers and other and geopolitical thinkers who are trying to figure out, is there a lag period? What's going on? But I think
Jerry Michalski: posing some hypotheses and watching the data to figure out what happens. And Trump is, of course, strong-arming companies to swallow the price hikes. He's like, yeah, you're not going to raise prices, or I'm going to shame you in public, and we've figured out that that's a really powerful tool that Trump has invented.
Jerry Michalski: like, Trump has more elbow room than any politician in recent memory for me. He can do kind of anything, and that's really impressive to his followers. Gotta… gotta… I have to admit that, that he…
Jerry Michalski: Obama did 8 years of no scandals. One day he wears a light gray suit at a press briefing, and that's the biggest scandal of the Obama administration. But he ran 8 years as president of the superpower in the world in a straitjacket.
Jerry Michalski: He was in a straitjacket.
Jerry Michalski: And didn't try to tear the straitjacket. This is my own read of, like, the administration in the rearview mirror, just in the rearview mirror. And I wish he had torn the straitjacket, and so does the country.
Jerry Michalski: the country said, okay, we'll give this guy a go, and then they voted for him again. I remember an interview in 2016, just before Trump gets elected. I remember one journalist went across the country, and they meet somebody in West Virginia, and they pick up this woman's grandfather who joins them in the car, and he's talking, he says, I voted for the black guy twice.
Jerry Michalski: And things aren't any better. And so… and so he votes for Trump.
Jerry Michalski: And I'm like, that's what… that's, like, the reality of what's on the ground for me, but if we're a sense-making community, then asking questions like, hey, when you kick out Medicare, when you take away SNAP, when you do all these things, it's going to have these effects, and Klaus, when you say, this kicks in in October, November, that's really nice, that's empirical. I can go… and I don't have the time or the expertise to watch the actual numbers on the
Jerry Michalski: thread database, or wherever, but…
Jerry Michalski: I'm looking for people who are doing exactly that, people whose voices I trust, which is a second layer or second order question from last week's call, kinda.
Jerry Michalski: But I'm very interested in that question and how it plays out, but I'm not willing to presume those results, because sometimes complex systems adjust and adapt, and the people get fed some other way, which I think Kalia had to drop off the call, but I think that's what Kalia and I would really wish, that the entire way we get food and shelter just changes.
Jerry Michalski: And if the reason, if the motive force for the change was somebody tore apart a government program that was feeding a lot of people, then that sucks, but that's interesting.
Jerry Michalski: And so I'm not willing to pre… I'm worried sick, but I'm not willing to prejudge the outcome, or to assume an outcome, because I see all too often that outcomes we thought were going to happen
Jerry Michalski: I have the T91. I was pretty sure that Trump was going to be corralled by one of the legitimate cases. There were a couple cases that should never have been brought, but there were some very legitimate cases that I thought were going to stick, and guess what? Velcro.
Jerry Michalski: Absolutely, no, not Velcro, Teflon.
Jerry Michalski: Like, Teflon Ron, like, you know, Reagan, nothing would stick to him. But, you know, Donnie is more Teflon than Ronnie.
Jerry Michalski: That was kind of… that was kind of rhymey.
Jerry Michalski: Anyway, I'll get off my soapbox for a second and go to Doug.
Doug Breitbart: … There's something about, like, the empirical thing about things that work.
Doug Breitbart: And I… yesterday, there was this fascinating piece on one of the channels about how,
Doug Breitbart: Gavin Newsom has been channeling Trump But with his message.
Jerry Michalski: Oh my… and the tweets and whatever's are hilarious.
Doug Breitbart: And, and, and… energetically, It's working.
Doug Breitbart: in a very Trumpian way.
Doug Breitbart: And it's sort of the first time somebody said, well, if it's working for him, maybe I should do what's working for him for me, and see what happens. And what's working is the vernacular.
Doug Breitbart: And to a certain extent, what he's proving is that it's not Trump in persona, it's his vernacular.
Doug Breitbart: In a very Andy Warhol, everybody's famous for 15-minute kind of way.
Doug Breitbart: As an energetic, semantic, You know, textural, cultural.
Doug Breitbart: Expression, mode of expression, of a moment, in history.
Doug Breitbart: That, energetically.
Doug Breitbart: activates people.
Doug Breitbart: Is pushing people's buttons.
Doug Breitbart: And I wouldn't discount dimensionally all the moving parts of that, which is also using X as a channel of communication.
Doug Breitbart: Like, you know, there, there are, like, all of these… dimensions.
Doug Breitbart: To the phenomena of what's going on culturally.
Doug Breitbart: And so, in the face of… Either…
Doug Breitbart: Cultural norms, morals, ethics, values, institutions, practices, Either becoming meh.
Doug Breitbart: in a digital vernacular, becoming irrelevant, like, okay, I don't care.
Doug Breitbart: Like, not relevant to me, not an active ingredient in my experience.
Doug Breitbart: Perceptually, on a human, experiential level.
Doug Breitbart: Or… I'm sick and tired of it, or I don't like it, or whatever.
Doug Breitbart: But there's a… there is a…
Doug Breitbart: There has been a de facto shift.
Doug Breitbart: in… The way people are communicating with each other.
Doug Breitbart: And the way they're responding, or not, To what matters to them.
Doug Breitbart: And… There's a quaintness… To the folks that are trapped in the previous cultural, post-industrial, Freed.
Jerry Michalski: Do you mean us?
Doug Breitbart: Yeah. Yeah, I didn't want to… I didn't want to stir an… I didn't want to stir an attribution, but yeah!
Doug Breitbart: Yeah.
Doug Breitbart: It's sort of like, you know, pining for the good old days.
Doug Breitbart: And, and, and, like, the concept that data is important.
Doug Breitbart: the concept that truth and accuracy in reporting is important, and representation is important.
Jerry Michalski: You're right.
Doug Breitbart: these things are, like, really, really quaint. But, you know, that ship has sailed!
Doug Breitbart: And QAnon, and gaming culture, and Generation, you know, X, Y, and Z, like.
Doug Breitbart: They were raised in a post-digital era.
Doug Breitbart: And it's a whole different orientation.
Doug Breitbart: …
Doug Breitbart: And I… I'll be the first one to say, I'm coming up on 70, and I have no capacity to tell you what that gestalt is. I don't recognize it, I don't understand it, and I'm…
Doug Breitbart: wrestling with how to gain insight into it. And it doesn't help reading articles about people doing observations about Gen XYZ employees. It's like…
Doug Breitbart: It is a very… it's a different species, it's a different animal of human.
Doug Breitbart: That, is much more… first, I think they're much smarter. I think they see things much clearer.
Doug Breitbart: In terms of bottom lines, And I think there's a general rejection of…
Doug Breitbart: The principles on which the old system operated.
Doug Breitbart: Because they can't buy a house, and they don't see a future in which they will be able to, even earning, you know, $200,000, $300,000 a year.
Klaus Mager: Yeah.
Jerry Michalski: You're painting a very nice description of a future OGM topic.
Doug Breitbart: They cannot rationalize any of the old stuff meaning anything, because it doesn't mean anything to them. They're trying to calculate for X on how to get what they want, and have the lifestyle they want, and do the things they want to do with the friends they have.
Doug Breitbart: None of them, by the way, are on LinkedIn, or Facebook, or X, or any of these services. They're all outside of social media completely.
Doug Breitbart: My son checks, you know, it's all he can do to check his email, and he said last visit, like, as soon as I can get rid of a smartphone, I will be.
Doug Breitbart: Has no interest in that.
Doug Breitbart: So, like… You know, what are we looking at?
Doug Breitbart: Like, what's… you know… and I think Gavin Newsom is on to something.
Klaus Mager: I don't know what that is.
Doug Breitbart: That's right.
Jerry Michalski: But I think he's not as complete. And I'm complete.
Klaus Mager: I gotta leave.
Jerry Michalski: Fair enough, guys.
Jerry Michalski: I have a hard stop at the half hour, and I'm eager to hear Ken if he has a poem, but given that.
Jerry Michalski: Let's go to kill.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'll be as quick as I can. Douglas, thank you for the rant.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Gavin's really interesting. People yelled at him a few months ago when he was having right-wing influencers on his podcast, thinking he had sold out. And I thought, no, he has not at all. He's, number one, researching, and number two, positioning. And he's going all in on this. He's clearly declared for president. And he's going right into the heart of MAGA, and it's brilliant, crazy stuff, and it may work, and it may backfire, and who knows?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Scott Galloway, Prop G, had a podcast in the last day or two saying that, like, everybody's running for president. It's so fascinating. He said everybody's calling him to say, can I be on your show? Can you give me money?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: is to say, I'm running for president. He's really worth following. Very… a lot of stuff on the cohort that Doug is talking about, and young men in particular, and the alienation throughout society. And it reminds me, Jerry, to what you were saying about before, or maybe somebody was, that
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We are a really, really, really rarefied group of people here.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: we pay attention to shit that most people don't pay any attention to, and don't know about, and don't care about. You know, I mean, Jerry, you talked about the three major networks, you know, years ago. You know, most people look at news, get their news from Fox News, but most people get their news from TikTok.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: friends, or other things. So, like, you know, we're… we operate in a strange little bubble ourselves. And the last thing I wanted to say, and then toss it over to Ken, is that
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I think… I think both Klaus and Jerry talked about how it might be good if everything completely falls to shit, and then there'll be impetus for change. In the completely falling to shit, millions of people die.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And tens of millions of people suffer.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Horribly. And we've already… people are already estimating the death count from the MAGA moves of just the last 8 months. And this was always… this was always a thing that I heard from some of my Marxist-Leninist friends back in the old days, where they talked about heightening the contradictions. It's really good if things get worse, because then the revolutionary fervor will rise. Well, no.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: No, it's really bad if things get worse, because people die, and the wrong kinds of revolutionary fervor arrive, and I… I'm not playing that game. So I just wanted to…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: throw that back at you. Sorry.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I didn't expect… I didn't expect that much ire to rise with it.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jerry Michalski: I'm hoping Stacy has something brighter and warmer to share with us.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Hope so.
Stacey Druss: Quicker. Quicker.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Sean.
Stacey Druss: Bye, Sean.
Jerry Michalski: price on.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, I just want to say, going back to what Doug was saying about how quaint
Stacey Druss: this group… I was just thinking, how quaint to think that we ever had honest day. Somebody last week said something, and I kind of took offense to it. I was like.
Stacey Druss: Don't include me in that we, but the truth is, they said.
Stacey Druss: Everybody exaggerates and lies to make their point.
Stacey Druss: And for the most part, that's kinda true, and it's always been that way.
Stacey Druss: So, I just wanted to mention that.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: That seems like one of those truths, like, that 63.7% of all statistics are made up on the spot.
Jerry Michalski: Sir Ken.
Jerry Michalski: Over to you in the booth, if you have a poem.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I do have a poem.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: This one's called Afraid So by Jean Marie Beaumont. Is it starting to rain?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Did the check bounce?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are we out of coffee?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is this going to hurt?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Could you lose your job?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Did the glass break?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Was the baggage misrouted?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will this go on my record?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are you missing much money?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Was anybody injured?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is the traffic heavy?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Do I have to remove my clothes?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will it leave a scar?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Must you go?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will this be in the papers?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is my time up already?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are we seeing the understudy?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Would affect my eyesight?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Did all the books burn?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are you still smoking?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is the bone broken?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will I have to put him to sleep?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Was the car totaled?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Am I responsible for these charges?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are you contagious?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will we have to wait long?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is the runway icy?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Was the gun loaded?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Could this cause side effects?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Do you know who betrayed you?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is the wound infected?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are we lost?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Can it get any worse?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Oh.
Jerry Michalski: That was like a tour of the universe.
Jerry Michalski: That was like a tour of the universe, damn.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Amazing. What was the title again? Afraid So. Afraid So. Afraid So.
Jerry Michalski: Oh my god.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Wow. You wanna hear it one more time?
Jerry Michalski: Oh, yes, please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Let's been nice to meet you, too.
Jerry Michalski: Gil might, Gil might drop out halfway.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I'm afraid so, by Jean Marie Beaumont.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Is it starting to rain?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Did the check bounce?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are we out of coffee?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is this going to hurt?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Could you lose your job?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Did the glass break?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Was the baggage misrouted?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will this go on my record?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are you missing much money?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Was anybody injured?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is the traffic heavy?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Do I have to remove my clothes?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will it leave a scar?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Must you go?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will this be in the papers?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is my time up already?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are we seeing the understudy?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will it affect my eyesight?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Did all the books burn?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are you still smoking?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is the bone broken?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will I have to put him to sleep?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Was the car totaled?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Am I responsible for these charges?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are you contagious?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Will we have to wait long?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is the runway icy?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Was the gun loaded?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Could this cause side effects?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Do you know who betrayed you?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is the wound infected?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Are we lost?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Can it get any worse?
Jerry Michalski: Yum.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you so much, that's sad.
Doug Breitbart: That's a gift, that's a gift.
Jerry Michalski: Useless and stuff.
Doug Breitbart: Priceless and troubling all at once.
Jerry Michalski: ….
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It's so versatile, like, it's really handy. Any time, pull that one out.
Jerry Michalski: Great, so….
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Let's, call this one now, and, thank you all.
Jerry Michalski: See you in a week, and some of you sooner in different venues, but ….
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Okay.
Jerry Michalski: Let's be careful out there.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Okay, Carol. Bye-bye.
Jerry Michalski: Done.